# AutoISATools
This is a way to automatize creation of simple ISATools data, while using the INRIA-Dyliss configuration.
(see links above)

Written in Python, AutoISATools can't replace the GUI, but can speed up the creation of new ISAtab files.
After using AutoISATools, you will need to start ISATools for the tabfile verification,
for choose the taxons and defines particular fields (cf Unsupported data), and finally create the ISArchive.



## Usage
The best way for use this script is probably the command line:

    python3 -m autoisatools --study-shortname="ANameYouWillRecognize" --study-name="A very very long title" --study-id="AnUniqueIDWithoutSpace" --description="A very long description of the study" --output-dir=/path/to/ISA_metadata/isatab_files" --contacts-file=/path/to/contacts.csv --pydio-url="http://emme.genouest.org/pydio/ws-dyliss/Escherichia%20coli/GraphCompression"

While all these informations are necessary, AutoISATools keep for itself the right to crash if an information is not given correctly.  
And crash happens. (because this script deals directly with userland)

The *Makefile* is a quick way to edit your command.


## Contacts file
The contact file is a CSV file formatted as (header is NOT optional):

    lastname,firstname,midinitials,email,phone,fax,adress,affiliation
    michel,vaillant,J.R,michel.vaillant@wanadold.fr,0601020304,4201020304,42 rue des abribus volants 12089 Champagne en Grasfond,INRIA
    gerard,morson,,superGG@wanadold.fr,060109347504,428320304,23 über straße,IRISA

Note that the role is a particular field that is not managed by AutoISATools (cf Unsupported data).



## Unsupported data
Taxons names and others database fields are not supported.
You will need to put them manually, via the graphical program ISATools.


## Assays names :
It's the hard part.
You can find all the possible assays (defined by Dyliss) [here](https://www.e-biogenouest.org/groups/dyliss/wiki/ProcedureStockage) (you will need to scroll a little).
But these data can't be directly used easily : some formatting is necessary.

The only solution, at this moment, is to know exactly what they are by starts ISATools, create an assay, and look at the file name *a_STUDY_LOWID_ASSAY_NAME_ASSAY_TECH.txt*.

These assays names are necessary for file integrity.

Knowns valid names are:
- Visualization_and_Representation;
- Classification_with_Formal_Concepts;

Knows valid techno are:
- FCA_for_proteins;
- Metabolic_network_representation;

Please Pull Request for keep this list up to date (and complete).
